---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: default
---


  **English**  |  [Español](/indexSpanish "Versión en Español")  



* Ecuadorian systems engineer. [...show...](/res/titulo "Registration of Systems Engineer Title")
* 9th promotion of systems engineering at the Technical University of Machala. [...show...](/res/registrotitulacion "Systems Engineer Title Registration")
* Passionate about code and process automation.
* Developer.
* Autodidact.
* Always interested in areas of Technology, Development, Self-Learning and Self-Discovery.


  **Achievements:**

   - Public Projects (Repositories)

     - Query with macro [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/querywithODBCISeriesAccessVBA "Repository")
     - Program/terminal control with excel macro [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/controlPCISeriesAfromExcel "Repository")
     - Obtaining coordinates from the web [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/coordsFromGeoportaltoExcel "Repository")
     - Coordinate transformation with excel macro [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/transfCoordExcelUTMLtLn "Repository")
     - Download Photos/Images with Excel Macro [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/downloadPhotosWithExcel "Repository")

   - Private Projects and Automations

     - Implementer of customized solutions:
      - Development and implementation of ConielApp application for Android V3+ operating system
      - Development and implementation of Rest api with Django to find read path of a UTM coordinate consumed through Excel for quick read path determination of new clients.
      - Web scraping with selenium to obtain existing client coordinates in the CNEL Geoportal.
      - Web scraping with selenium for data collection and manipulation of Aciiss Web Platform - CNEL.
      - Development and implementation of custom forms for gathering information in the field with the Memento Database app.
      - Development and implementation of the rest service to obtain customer data from CNEL EP (El Oro and Manabí) to terminals using the Memento Database app (real-time verification support).
      - Development and implementation of forms for Revisions of massive measurement systems.
      - Development and implementation of forms for installation of energy totalizers.
      - Development and implementation of forms for network reading taking.
      - Development and implementation of a facility for calculating losses in electric power networks from readings of network meters and totalizers.


     - Process automation (Responsible for providing services for automation).

      - Attention of Requests oriented to the control of non-technical energy losses,
      - Revisions of massive measurement systems,
      - Installation of energy totalizers
      - Network reading taking
      - Calculation of losses by electric power networks
      - Development and implementation of custom solutions using Processmaker Community edition, JQuery, IBM Personal Communications API Client and VBA Excel

     - Macros in Excel for automated system control. Linked with RestFramework/Django.
       - VBA (Visual Basque for Applications).
     - Access (migrate data from Geodatabase to Access Database) / Queries from Excel of coordinates of clients migrated from Geodatabase to Acess.
     - Web scraping (From Services REST Geoportal and ArcGis Services Web). / Consultation through Macro VBA customer coordinates
     - IClient Access (IBM) (Control of the terminal and execution of repetitive processes to obtain data). / Terminal control with VBA and Python(pywin32)


**Experience:** [...show...](/res/iess "Social Security Certificate")

  Systems Engineer & Software Engineer  
  ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM OF METERS ZONE ONE CENTRO SOUTH  
  ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM OF METERS ZONE TWO NORTH  
  Oct 2019 – Present (29 months +)  
  Responsible for systems, IT support and customized integrated software solutions for effective and efficient request attention of the CNEL EP Unida de Negicio Manabí commercial system (Various commercial services, attention received by service balcony, and generated by officials)  

  Systems Engineer & Software Engineer  
  ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM OF METERS ZONE ONE CENTRO SOUTH  
  Jun 2021 – Mar 2022 (9 months +)  
  Responsible for systems, IT support and customized integrated software solutions for effective and efficient attention to requests from the commercial system of CNEL EP Unida de Negicio El Oro (Various commercial services, attention received by service balcony, and generated by officials)  

  Systems Engineer & Software Engineer  
  CVL EL ORO ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM  
  Mar 2019 – Apr 2020 (13 months +)  
  Responsible for systems, IT support and customized integrated software solutions for effective and efficient attention to requests from the commercial system of CNEL EP Unida de Negicio El Oro (Requests oriented to the control of non-technical energy losses, revisions of massive measurement systems)  

  Software Solutions Manager  
  EL ORO ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM  
  Oct 2018 – Jan 2019 (3 ​​months +)  
  Responsible for customized integrated software solutions for effective and efficient attention to requests from the commercial system of CNEL EP Unida de Negicio El Oro (Various commercial services, attention received by service balcony, and generated by officials)  

  Systems Engineer & Software Engineer  
  ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM LOSS REDUCTION SECTOR TWO  
  ELECTRICAL CONSORTIUM LOSS REDUCTION MANTA  
  Mar 2019 – Apr 2020 (13 months +)  
  Responsible for systems, IT support and custom integrated software solutions for effective and efficient request attention of the commercial system of CNEL EP Unida de Negicio Manabi  

  Systems Engineer & Software Engineer  
  CONIEL CIA LTDA  
  Jul 2013 – Jun 2020 (31 months +) Eventual and Principal  
  Responsible for systems, IT support and custom integrated software solutions for effective and efficient attention to requests from the commercial system of CNEL EP Unida de Negicio Manabi/El Oro  


**Skills:**

 - Computer networks.  [...show...](/res/ccna1 "Cisco Certificate")
 
 - Operating Systems:
   - Windows xp - 11.
   - Ubuntu Linux.

 - Programs:
   - ArcMap.
   - Office

 - Programming and development of solutions:
   - Git y Github
   - VBA.
   - Django.  [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/PracticasDjango "Practices")
   - RestFramework.
   - Python.  [...repo...](https://github.com/JhonssonC/PythonUdemi2021_NotasEsp "Practices")
   - Javascript.
   - Html5.
   - CSS3.
   - JQuery.
   - Sqlite3.
   - Postgresql.

